---
layout: post-light-feature
title: netstat
description: How to integrate an external command into your scripts
category: articles
tags: powershell, external command, netstat
---

## External commands

Do you ever use Ping, or IPConfig, or Netstat, etc when you are in the PowerShell? If so then you are calling an external command. That is to say, these are executables on a Windows computer that are located by virtue of being in C:\Wndows\System32 or some other location that is in your ```$ENV:Path``` variable. If you want to see all of the external commands that are available to you run ```Get-Command -CommandType Application``` and you will get a whole host of commands you can run from PowerShell. However, as the name might suggest, these are 'external' - they are launched by PowerShell and they run outside your session. Any results are shown in your session but they are received as a stream of text rather than a PowerShell object which is ready for further commands in the pipeline.

## Can we get over this problem that an external command doesn't return an object?

It's a bit of a fiddle and the nest advice is to use the internal PowerShell command that does the same thing whenever possible - eg use ```Get-NetIPAddress``` instead of ```IPConfig```. Sometimes however there is no PowerShell equivalent to use and you will have to get up close and personal with the stream of text received. For this example we are going to work with Netstat.

## Netstat? What the heck is that?

```netstat /?``` : "Displays protocol statistics and current TCP/IP network connections." Essentially you can use netstat to see IP connection in and out of the current computer along with the protocol and port those connections are using. Pretty handy when, for example, you are debugging client - SQL server connections over a domain or through a firewall etc.

Natively netstat provides results in a columnar format
